<chapter id="chp-importExport">
  <title>Import/Exporting</title>
  <para>If you attend a family party, a company meeting, a conference, or
      any other event where other KimDaBa users may be present, you may
      wish to share your images with those people. You may of course choose
      to generate HTML pages for them to browse, but given you already have
    spent time classifying all images (Who is on the images, where were they
      taken etc), there are no reason for them to redo all that
      work.</para>

    <para>KimDaBa allows you to export a set of your images into a
      <literal>.kim</literal> file, which other people may import into
      their database, to get your classification for these images.</para>

    <para>Two different kind of <literal>.kim</literal> files exists,
      inlines or externals, referring to whether the images them self are
      located in the file or at some other location. Placing the images in
      the file has the obvious advantage that the file is self contained,
      while it has the equally obvious disadvantage of the file being
      rather big.</para>

    <para>There are two places from which you may generate a
      <literal>.kim</literal> file, namely directly from
      <guimenu>File</guimenu>|<guimenuitem>Export...</guimenuitem>, or
      along with HTML pages (see <xref
        linkend="chp-generating-html"/>). Creating a
      <literal>.kim</literal> file during HTML export will create an
      external <literal>.kim</literal> file.</para>

    <para>External <literal>.kim</literal> files will search for images in
      one of two ways. First it will try to look for the images next to the
      <literal>.kim</literal> file, and if not found, it will search for them
      at the URL specified when the <literal>.kim</literal> file was
      created. Notice the later is only possible for
      <literal>.kim</literal> files created during HTML export.</para>
    
    <sect1 id="chp-exportDialog">
      <title>Export Dialog</title>
      <para>This section will tell you about the export dialog which you
        get to from
        <guimenu>File</guimenu>|<guimenuitem>Export...</guimenuitem>.</para>

      <para>The most important part of this dialog is specifying whether
        the <literal>.kim</literal> file should be internal or external
        (see description above). You have the following three
        options:
      
        <itemizedlist>
          <listitem><para>Include in <literal>.kim</literal> file - this
              will be an internal file</para></listitem>
          <listitem><para>Manual copy next to .kim file - Here you must
              copy the images yourself next to the .kim file</para></listitem>
          <listitem><para>Automatically copy next to .kim file - here
              KimDaBa will copy the images for you.</para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </para>
      
      <para>Between you and me, <literal>.kim</literal> files are really
        just zip files. Normally it is not worth bothering compressing the
        files because images normally are compressed JPEG already, and the
        xml file itself are really tiny. If you really want to squish out
        the last few bytes, you may still do so, by checking
        <literal>Compress Export File</literal></para>

      <para>The final option on the page are <literal>Limit maximum image
          dimension</literal>. When sending some images to some friends,
        you may not want to send images in full size, as the
        <literal>.kim</literal> file might be huge. For this, you may
        specify that the maximum dimension of images should be say maximum 800
        pixels in each direction.</para>
    </sect1>




    
    <sect1 id="chp-importDialog">
      <title>Import Dialog</title>
      <para>This section will tell you about the import dialog you get to
        either my selecting a <literal>.kim</literal> file from a web
        browser, or by choosing
        <guimenu>File</guimenu>|<guimenuitem>Import...</guimenuitem>.</para>

    </sect1>
  </chapter>


<!-- Keep this comment at the end of the file
Local variables:
mode: xml
sgml-namecase-general:t
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-indent-step:2
sgml-parent-document: "index.docbook"
End:
-->
