<chapter id="introduction">
  <title>Introduction</title>
  <para>KimDaba stands for K Image Database.</para>
  
  <para>If you are like me you have hundreds or even thousands of images
ever since you got your first camera, some taken with a normal camera other
with a digital camera. Through all the years you believed that until
eternity you would be able to remember the story behind every single
picture, you would be able to remember the names of all the persons on your
images, and you would be able to remember the exact date of every single
image. I personally realized that this was not possible anymore, and
especially for my digital images - but also for my paper images - I needed
a tool to help me describe my images, and to search in the pile of
images. This is exactly what KimDaba is all about.</para>
  
  
  <para>KimDaba focuses on three key points: 
<itemizedlist>
      <listitem><para>It must be easy to describe a number of images at a
time. It must for example not take more than a few mouse clicks to mark all
your images from your holiday as being from Italy, 1992. KimDaba offers two
ways of description images <emphasis>one at a time</emphasis>, which is
useful for writing text about images, and <emphasis>All
Simultaneously</emphasis>, which is useful for selecting a 
number of images, and setting properties like location, persons on images,
and date of image.</para></listitem>
      
      <listitem><para>It must be easy to search for images. KimDaba offers to
describe images with a number of properties. These includes date, persons
on image, location of image, plus a keyword field the user can use for
custom keywords like <emphasis>Album 7</emphasis> or <emphasis>Holiday trip
to Italy</emphasis>. With KimDaBa you can 
search for images in each of the categories - e.g. find all the images with Jesper on
them from the holiday in Italy.</para></listitem>
      
      <listitem><para>It must be easy to browse and View the images. When viewing
images, your focus often changes - one moment you are looking at images
from your holiday in 1992, and when seeing an image of a friend whom you
spent that holiday with, you focus suddenly changes, so you want to see all
images of that friend.</para></listitem>
    </itemizedlist></para>
  
  
  <!-- ====================================================================== -->
  <sect1 id="sect-overview-of-manual">
    <title>Overview of the manual</title>
    <para>In this manual I will take you through the steps of (1) specifying
information about your images, (2) browsing and viewing images and (3)
advanced topics and customization.</para>
  </sect1>
  
  
  <!-- ====================================================================== -->
  <sect1 id="sec-organization-of-images-and-KimDaBa-files">
    <title>Organization of images and KimDaBa files</title>
    <para>KimDaBa uses all the images of a directory and all subdirectories
below it, first time you start KimDaBa, you will be ask for the location of
this directory, as can been see in . KimDaBa will not modify any images, so you do not have to
be afraid of KimDaBa altering your images <footnote><para>The only destructive operation
KimDaBa will perform towards your images is to delete individual images, if
you ask it to from <guimenu>Edit</guimenu>|<guimenuitem>Delete
Selected</guimenuitem></para></footnote>, actually if you do not trust
KimDaBa, feel free to make all your images write protected - but as I said KimDaBa will not modify your
images in any way, that is no rotation, no scaling, no changing colors,or
anything are done to your images on disk, all these operations will be done
in between reading the image from disk, and showing it on screen.</para>
    
    <para>KimDaBa will save all its information in the file
<filename>index.xml</filename> in your topmost image directory. This file
is a simple XML file, so you can easily back it up using what ever tools
you prefer, including normal backup utilities, copying the file to a
floppy disk, or keeping revisions using CVS.</para>
    
    <para>KimDaBa will remember where you told it your images were
located, and reuse that in future use of KimDaBa. Should you ever want to
load another database into KimDaBa (i.e. another directory tree of
images), then you may start it with the  <option>-c</option> option. For
example: <literal>kimdaba -c ~/MyMovies/index.xml</literal></para>
  </sect1>
</chapter>

<!-- Keep this comment at the end of the file
Local variables:
mode: xml
sgml-namecase-general:t
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-indent-step:2
sgml-parent-document: "index.docbook"
End:
-->
